[toc]

## 14 任务

Gradle supports enhanced tasks, which are tasks that have their own properties and methods. Such enhanced tasks are either provided by you or built into Gradle.

### 14.1 定义任务

第6章已经介绍了如何用关键字的形式定义任务。这种形式有一些变体。

```
task(hello) << {
    println "hello"
}

task(copy, type: Copy) {
    from(file('srcDir'))
    into(buildDir)
}
```

You can also use strings for the task names:

```
task('hello') <<
{
    println "hello"
}

task('copy', type: Copy) {
    from(file('srcDir'))
    into(buildDir)
}
```

There is an alternative syntax for defining tasks, which you may prefer to use:

```
tasks.create(name: 'hello') << {
    println "hello"
}

tasks.create(name: 'copy', type: Copy) {
    from(file('srcDir'))
    into(buildDir)
}
```

Here we add tasks to the tasks collection. Have a look at `TaskContainer` for more variations of the `create()` method.

### 14.2 定位任务

You often need to locate the tasks that you have defined in the build file, for example, to configure them or use them for dependencies. There are a number of ways of doing this. 首先每个任务都会变成工程的一个属性。

```
task hello

println hello.name
println project.hello.name
```

Tasks are also available through the tasks collection.

```
task hello

println tasks.hello.name
println tasks['hello'].name
```

You can access tasks from any project using the task's path using the `tasks.getByPath()` method. You can call the `getByPath()` method with a task name, or a relative path, or an absolute path.

```
project(':projectA') {
    task hello
}

task hello

println tasks.getByPath('hello').path
println tasks.getByPath(':hello').path
println tasks.getByPath('projectA:hello').path
println tasks.getByPath(':projectA:hello').path
```

Output of `gradle -q hello`

    :hello
    :hello
    :projectA:hello
    :projectA:hello

Have a look at `TaskContainer` for more options for locating tasks.

### 14.3 配置任务

As an example, let's look at the `Copy` task provided by Gradle. To create a Copy task for your build, you can declare in your build script:

```
task myCopy(type: Copy)
```

This creates a copy task with no default behavior. The task can be configured using its API. The following examples show several different ways to achieve the same configuration.

Just to be clear, realize that the name of this task is “myCopy”, but it is of type “Copy”. You can have multiple tasks of the same type, but with different names. You'll find this gives you a lot of power to implement cross-cutting concerns across all tasks of a particular type.

```
Copy myCopy = task(myCopy, type: Copy)
myCopy.from 'resources'
myCopy.into 'target'
myCopy.include('**/*.txt', '**/*.xml', '**/*.properties')
```

This is a redundancy and not very nice to read.
There is another way of configuring a task. It also preserves the context and it is arguably the most readable. It is usually our favorite.

```
task myCopy(type: Copy)

myCopy {
   from 'resources'
   into 'target'
   include('**/*.txt', '**/*.xml', '**/*.properties')
}
```

This works for any task. Line 3 of the example is just a shortcut for the `tasks.getByName()` method. It is important to note that if you pass a closure to the `getByName()` method, this closure is applied to configure the task, not when the task executes.

还可以在定义任务时使用配置闭包。

```
task copy(type: Copy) {
   from 'resources'
   into 'target'
   include('**/*.txt', '**/*.xml', '**/*.properties')
}
```

### 14.4 向任务添加依赖

There are several ways you can define the dependencies of a task. In Section 6.5, “Task dependencies” you were introduced to defining dependencies using task names. Task names can refer to tasks in the same project as the task, or to tasks in other projects. To refer to a task in another project, you prefix the name of the task with the path of the project it belongs to. The following is an example which adds a dependency from `projectA:taskX` to `projectB:taskY:`

Example 14.11. Adding dependency on task from another project

```
project('projectA') {
    task taskX(dependsOn: ':projectB:taskY') << {
        println 'taskX'
    }
}

project('projectB') {
    task taskY << {
        println 'taskY'
    }
}
```

Instead of using a task name, you can define a dependency using a `Task` object, as shown in this example:

```
task taskX << {
    println 'taskX'
}

task taskY << {
    println 'taskY'
}

taskX.dependsOn taskY
```

For more advanced uses, you can define a task dependency using a closure. When evaluated, the closure is passed the task whose dependencies are being calculated. The closure should return a single Task or collection of Task objects, which are then treated as dependencies of the task. The following example adds a dependency from `taskX` to all the tasks in the project whose name starts with lib:

```
task taskX << {
    println 'taskX'
}

taskX.dependsOn {
    tasks.findAll { task -> task.name.startsWith('lib') }
}

task lib1 << {
    println 'lib1'
}

task lib2 << {
    println 'lib2'
}

task notALib << {
    println 'notALib'
}
```

For more information about task dependencies, see the `Task` API.

### （未）14.5 Ordering tasks

### 14.6 向任务添加描述

```
task copy(type: Copy) {
   description 'Copies the resource directory to the target directory.'
   from 'resources'
   into 'target'
   include('**/*.txt', '**/*.xml', '**/*.properties')
}
```

### （及以下未）14.7 替换任务

Sometimes you want to replace a task. For example, if you want to exchange a task added by the Java plugin with a custom task of a different type. You can achieve this with:


```
task copy(type: Copy)

task copy(overwrite: true) << {
    println('I am the new one.')
}
```

This will replace a task of type `Copy` with the task you've defined, because it uses the same name. When you define the new task, you have to set the `overwrite` property to true. Otherwise Gradle throws an exception, saying that a task with that name already exists.





