
## （需要重看）10. 数组与指针

### 数组

数组声明：

	float candy[365];

初始化：

	int powers[8] = {1,2,4,6,8,16,32,64}; /* ANSI C and later */

只读数组（不能修改数组元素）：

	const int days[MONTHS] = {31,28,31,30,31,30,31,31,30,31,30,31};

只读数组必须在声明时初始化。

指定初始化列表时可以省略数组长度设定，将根据列表长度自动设定。

	const int days[] = {31,28,31,30,31,30,31,31,30,31};

`sizeof days`是整个数组大小，注意单位是字节。`sizeof days[0]`是第一个元素的大小，单位也是字节。二者相除得到数组大小。

#### 指定（Designated）初始化(C99)

C99添加一项新功能，可以指定初始化哪个元素：

	int arr[6] = {[5] = 212}; // initialize arr[5] to 212

未被初始化的元素设为**0**。例子：

	#define MONTHS 12
	int days[MONTHS] = {31,28, [4] = 31,30,31, [1] = 29};

对于`[4] = 31,30,31`的序列，分别初始化位置4和后续的两个元素。Second, if the code initializes a particular element to a value more than once, the last initialization is the one that takes effect.

C doesn’t let you assign one array to another as a unit. Nor can you use the list-in-braces form except when initializing.

    int oxen[SIZE] = {5,3,2,8}; /* ok here */
    int yaks[SIZE];
    yaks = oxen; /* 不允许！ */
    yaks[SIZE] = oxen[SIZE];
    yaks[SIZE] = {5,3,2,8}; /* 不允许！ */

指定数组大小时，允许使用的值是？C99之前，必须用constant integer expression。A constant integer expression is one formed from integer constants. 例如`sizeof`是integer constant，但`const`不是（C++不是这样）。

    int n = 5;
    int m = 8;

    float a8[n]; // not allowed before C99
    float a9[m]; // not allowed before C99

C90不允许后面两种形式。C99允许，但创建的时另一种数组，称为variable-length array，或VLA。(C11 retreats from this bold initiative, making VLAs an optional rather than mandatory language feature.)

VLAs have some restrictions; for example, you can’t initialize a VLA in its declaration. This chapter will return to VLAs later.

### 多维数组

	float rain[5][12]; // array of 5 arrays of 12 floats

初始化多维数组：

	const float rain[YEARS][MONTHS] = {
        {4.3,4.3,4.3,3.0,2.0,1.2,0.2,0.2,0.4,2.4,3.5,6.6},
        {8.5,8.2,1.2,1.6,2.4,0.0,5.2,0.9,0.3,0.9,1.4,7.3},
        {9.1,8.5,6.7,4.3,2.1,0.8,0.2,0.2,1.1,2.3,6.1,8.4},
        {7.2,9.9,8.4,3.3,1.2,0.8,0.4,0.0,0.6,1.7,4.3,6.2},
        {7.6,5.6,3.8,2.8,3.8,0.2,0.0,0.0,0.0,1.3,2.6,5.2}
    };

The rules we discussed about mismatches between data and array sizes apply to each row. That is, if the first inner set of braces encloses 10 numbers, only the first 10 elements of the first row are affected. The last two elements in that row are then initialized by default to zero.

You could omit the interior braces and just retain the two outermost braces. As long as you have the right number of entries, the effect is the same. If you are short of entries, however, the array is filled sequentially, row by row, until the data runs out. Then the remaining elements are initialized to 0.

	int sq[2][3] = {{5,6},{7,8}};
    int sq[2][3] = {5,6,7, 8};

### 指针与数组

An array name is also the address of the first element of the array. That is, if `flizny` is an array, the following is true:

	flizny == &flizny[0]; // name of array is the address of the first element

Both `flizny` and `&flizny[0]` represent the memory address of that first element. Both are **constants** because they remain fixed for the duration of the program.

数组地址赋给指针：

    short dates [SIZE];
    short * pti;
    pti = dates; // assign address of array to pointer

    int days[MONTHS] = {31,28,31,30,31,30,31,31,30,31,30,31};
    int index;
    for (index = 0; index < MONTHS; index++)
    	printf("Month %2d has %d days.\n", index +1, *(days + index)); // same as days[index]

### 函数、数组、指针

    int sum(int * ar, int n) // more general approach
    {
    	int i;
    	int total = 0;
    	for( i = 0; i < n; i++)
        	total += ar[i];
    	return total;
    }

`ar[i]` the same as `*(ar + i)`. Here, we make use of the fact that just as you can use pointer notation with array names, you can use array notation with a pointer.

There’s one more thing to tell about function parameters. In the context of a function prototype or function definition header, and only in that context, you can substitute int `ar[]` for `int * ar`:

	int sum (int ar[], int n);

Because prototypes allow you to omit a name, all four of the following prototypes are equivalent:

	int sum(int *ar, int n);
    int sum(int *, int);
    int sum(int ar[], int n);
    int sum(int [], int);

As far as C goes, the two expressions `ar[i]` and `*(ar+i)` are equivalent in meaning. Both work if `ar` is the name of an array, and both work if `ar` is a pointer variable. However, using an expression such as `ar++` only works if `ar` is a pointer variable.

### 指针操作

指针允许操作

- 赋值：可以赋给指针一个地址，包括数组名，另一个指针，或取值运算符的值`&`。
- The `*` operator gives the value stored in the pointed-to location.
- 指针与其他变量一样，也有地址。
- 指针加一个整数。This makes `ptr1 + 4` the same as `&urn[4]`.
- 指针减去一个整数。
- 两个指针做差。
- 比较。

### 保护数组内容

If a function’s intent is that it not change the contents of the array, use the keyword const when declaring the formal parameter in the prototype and in the function definition.

	int sum(const int ar[], int n); /* prototype */

Then, if you accidentally use an expression such as ar[i]++, the compiler can catch it and generate an error message, telling you that the function is attempting to alter constant data.

It’s important to understand that using const this way does not require that the original array be *constant*.

`const` additionally lets you create constant arrays, constant pointers, and pointers to constants.

指向常量的指针不能改变指向的值。例如：

	double rates[5] = {88.99, 100.12, 59.45, 183.11, 340.5};
	const double * pd = rates; // pd points to beginning of the array

`pd`指向的值是一个常量。则：

    *pd = 29.89; // not allowed
    pd[2] = 222.22; // not allowed
    rates[0] = 99.99; // allowed because rates is not const

但修改指针本身的指向是允许的，如：`pd++;`。

A pointer-to-constant is normally used as a function parameter to indicate that the function won’t use the pointer to change data. For example, the `show_array()` function from Listing 10.14 could have been prototyped as

	void show_array(const double *ar, int n);

给一个指向常量的指针赋值时，可以赋予一个常量的地址，或变量的地址。

但是，常量的地址不能赋给指向非常量的指针。

    double rates[5] = {88.99, 100.12, 59.45, 183.11, 340.5};
    const double locked[4] = {0.08, 0.075, 0.0725, 0.07};
    double * pnc = rates; // valid
    pnc = locked; // not valid

Therefore, using `const` in a function parameter definition not only protects data, it also allows the function to work with arrays that have been declared const.

There are more possible uses of const. For example, you can declare and initialize a pointer so that it can’t be made to point elsewhere. The trick is the placement of the keyword const:

	double rates[5] = {88.99, 100.12, 59.45, 183.11, 340.5};
	double * const pc = rates;
    pc = &rates[2]; // not allowed to point elsewhere
	*pc = 92.99; // 可以

Finally, you can use const twice to create a pointer that can neither change where it’s pointing nor change the value to which it points:

    double rates[5] = {88.99, 100.12, 59.45, 183.11, 340.5};
    const double * const pc = rates;
    pc = &rates[2]; // not allowed
    *pc = 92.99; // not allowed

### 指针与多维数组

	int zippo[4][2]; /* an array of arrays of ints */

`zippo`是数组第一个元素的地址，即与`&zippo[0]`相同。`zippo[0]`是一个数组，因此`zippo[0]`等于`&zippo[0][0]`。注意虽然`zippo`和`zippo[0]`指向相同地址，但二者类型不同：一个指向一个一位数组，一个指向一个整数。Therefore, `zippo + 1` has a different value from `zippo[0] + 1`.

声明指向二维数组的指针，如指向`zippo`的：

	int (* pz)[2]; // pz points to an array of 2 ints

注意`[]`比`*`优先级高。`int * pax[2]`是一个数组，元素是指针。

指针赋值约束与整型赋值更严格。例如你可以将一个`int`值赋给`double`变量。但不同对指向这两种类型的指针做这样的赋值。

But such assignments no longer are safe when you go to two levels of indirection. For instance, you could do something like this:

    const int **pp2;
    int *p1;
    const int n = 13;
    pp2 = &p1; // allowed, but const qualifier disregarded
    *pp2 = &n; // valid, both const, but sets p1 to point at n
    *p1 = 10; // valid, but tries to change const n

What happens? As mentioned before, the standard says the effect of altering const data using a non-const pointer is undefined. For instance, compiling a short program with this code using gcc in Terminal (OS X’s access to the underlying Unix system) led to n ending up with the value 13, but using clang in the same environment led to a value of 10. Both compilers did warn about incompatible pointer types. You can, of course, ignore the warnings, but you’d best not rely upon the results of running the program.

C and **C++** use const similarly, but not identically. One difference is that **C++** allows using a const integer value to declare an array size and C is more restrictive. Another is that **C++** has stricter rules about pointer assignments:

    const int y;
    const int * p2 = &y;
    int * p1;
    p1 = p2; // error in C++, possible warning in C

In C++ you are not allowed to assign a `const` pointer to a non-const pointer. In C, you can make this assignment, but the behavior is undefined if you try to use p1 to alter y.

### Variable-Length Arrays (VLAs)

如果二维数组做函数参数，必须声明第二维的大小。即函数能处理的数组种类受到限制。This need was the primary impulse for C99 introducing variable-length arrays, which allow you to use variables when dimensioning an array. For example, you can do this:

    int quarters = 4;
    int regions = 5;
    double sales[regions][quarters]; // a VLA

但VLAs有一些限制。They need to have the automatic storage class, which means they are declared either in a function without using the `static` or `extern` storage class modifiers (Chapter 12) or as function parameters. Also, you can’t initialize them in a declaration. VLAs在C99中是必备特性，但在C11变成了一个可选的特性。

The term variable in variable-length array does not mean that you can modify the length of the array after you create it. Once created, a VLA keeps the same size.

Let’s look at a simple example that shows how to write a function that will sum the contents of any two-dimensional array of ints.

First, here’s how to declare a function with a two-dimensional VLA argument:

	int sum2d(int rows, int cols, int ar[rows][cols]); // ar a VLA

Because the `ar` declaration uses `rows` and `cols`, they have to be declared before ar in the parameter list. Therefore, the following prototype is in error:

	int sum2d(int ar[rows][cols], int rows, int cols); // invalid order

The C99/C11 standard says you can omit names from the prototype; but in that case, you need to replace the omitted dimensions with asterisks:

	int sum2d(int, int, int ar[*][*]); // ar a VLA, names omitted

One point to note is that a VLA declaration in a function definition parameter list doesn’t actually create an array. Just as with the old syntax, the VLA name really is a pointer.

Variable-length arrays also allow for dynamic memory allocation. This means you can specify the size of the array while the program is running. Regular C arrays have static memory allocation, meaning the size of the array is determined at compile time. That’s because the array sizes, being constants, are known to the compiler. Chapter 12 looks at dynamic memory allocation.

### Compound Literals

如果数组有一个`int`参数，你可以传给它一个`int`变量，或`int`常量，如`5`。但在C99前，对于数组参数，可以传一个数组，但没有数组常量可传。C99 changed that with the addition of compound literals.

For arrays, a compound literal looks like an array initialization list preceded by a type name that is enclosed in parentheses.

	(int [2]){10, 20} // a compound literal

Just as you can leave out the array size if you initialize a named array, you can omit it from a compound literal, and the compiler will count how many elements are present:

	(int []){50, 20, 90} // a compound literal with 3 elements

利用指针持有一个compound literals：

	int * pt1;
	pt1 = (int [2]) {10, 20};

Another thing you could do with a compound literal is pass it as an actual argument to a func- tion with a matching formal parameter:

    int sum(const int ar[], int n);
    ...
    int total3;
    total3 = sum((int []){4,4,4,5,5,5}, 6);

You can extend the technique to two-dimensional arrays, and beyond.

    int (*pt2)[4]; // declare a pointer to an array of 4-int arrays
    pt2 = (int [2][4]) { {1,2,3,-9}, {4,5,6,-8} };

Keep in mind that a compound literal is a means for providing values that are needed only temporarily. It has block scope, a concept covered in Chapter 12. That means its existence is not guaranteed once program execution leaves the block in which the compound literal is defined, that is, the innermost pair of braces containing the definition.