[toc]

### 资源-动画

动画资源可以定义两种动画：

- 属性动画。创建动画，修改对象的属性。利用 `Animator`。
- 视图动画。视图动画框架提供两种动画：
  - 补间动画: Creates an animation by performing a series of transformations on a single image with an Animation
  - 帧动画: or creates an animation by showing a sequence of images in order with an `AnimationDrawable`.

#### 属性动画

An animation defined in XML that modifies properties of the target object, such as background color or alpha value, over a set amount of time.

这类动画定义在 `res/animator/xxxx.xml`。

Resource pointer to a `ValueAnimator`, `ObjectAnimator`, or `AnimatorSet`.

在 Java 中，通过 `R.animator.filename` 引用动画。在 XML 中，通过 `@[package:]animator/filename`。

语法结构：

```
    <set
      android:ordering=["together" | "sequentially"]>

        <objectAnimator
            android:propertyName="string"
            android:duration="int"
            android:valueFrom="float | int | color"
            android:valueTo="float | int | color"
            android:startOffset="int"
            android:repeatCount="int"
            android:repeatMode=["repeat" | "reverse"]
            android:valueType=["intType" | "floatType"]/>

        <animator
            android:duration="int"
            android:valueFrom="float | int | color"
            android:valueTo="float | int | color"
            android:startOffset="int"
            android:repeatCount="int"
            android:repeatMode=["repeat" | "reverse"]
            android:valueType=["intType" | "floatType"]/>

        <set>
            ...
        </set>
    </set>
```

The file must have a single root element: either `<set>`, `<objectAnimator>`, or `<valueAnimator>`. You can group animation elements together inside the `<set>` element, including other `<set>` elements.

**`<set>` 元素**

A container that holds other animation elements (`<objectAnimator>`, `<valueAnimator>`, or other `<set>` elements). Represents an `AnimatorSet`.
You can specify nested `<set>` tags to further group animations together. Each `<set>` can define its own `ordering` attribute.

attributes:

- `android:ordering`。指定组内的播放顺序。取值为 `sequentially` 或 `together`（默认），分别表示顺序播放和同时播放。

**`<objectAnimator>` 元素**

Animates a specific property of an object over a specific amount of time. Represents an `ObjectAnimator`.

attributes:

- `android:propertyName`：字符串。必须。对象的哪个属性要动，如 `alpha`。You have to inflate your animation XML resource by calling `loadAnimator()` and call `setTarget()` to set the target object that contains this property.
- `android:valueTo`：float, int, or color. Required. 属性终止。Colors are represented as six digit hexadecimal numbers (for example, #333333).
- `android:valueFrom`：float, int, or color. 属性起始值。若不指定，初始值从属性的get方法取。Colors are represented as six digit hexadecimal numbers (for example, #333333).
- `android:duration`：int. 毫秒。动画时间。默认300毫秒。
- `android:startOffset`：int. The amount of milliseconds the animation delays after `start()` is called.
- `android:repeatCount`：int. How many times to repeat an animation. -1 表示无限循环。For example, a value of "1" means that the animation is repeated once after the initial run of the animation, so the animation plays a total of two times. 默认值0，表示不循环。
- `android:repeatMode`：int. How an animation behaves when it reaches the end of the animation. `android:repeatCount` must be set to a positive integer or "-1" for this attribute to have an effect. Set to `"reverse"` to have the animation reverse direction with each iteration or `"repeat"` to have the animation loop from the beginning each time.
- `android:valueType`。取值 `intType` 或 `floatType`。若值是一个颜色，不要指定该特性。

**`<animator>`元素**

Performs an animation over a specified amount of time. Represents a `ValueAnimator`.
attributes:

- `android:valueTo`
- `android:valueFrom`：必须！
- `android:duration`
- `android:startOffset`
- `android:repeatCount`
- `android:repeatMode`
- `android:valueType`

**例子**

XML file saved at res/animator/property_animator.xml:

```xml
    <set android:ordering="sequentially">
        <set>
            <objectAnimator
                android:propertyName="x"
                android:duration="500"
                android:valueTo="400"
                android:valueType="intType"/>
            <objectAnimator
                android:propertyName="y"
                android:duration="500"
                android:valueTo="300"
                android:valueType="intType"/>
        </set>
        <objectAnimator
            android:propertyName="alpha"
            android:duration="500"
            android:valueTo="1f"/>
    </set>
```

In order to run this animation, you must inflate the XML resources in your code to an `AnimatorSet` object, and then set the target objects for all of the animations before starting the animation set. Calling `setTarget()` sets a single target object for all children of the `AnimatorSet` as a convenience. The following code shows how to do this:

```java
AnimatorSet set = (AnimatorSet) AnimatorInflater.loadAnimator(myContext,
    R.anim.property_animator);
set.setTarget(myObject);
set.start();
```

更多信息参见：

http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/graphics/prop-animation.html

