[toc]

## 33 目录

与其他操作系统类似，iOS 的文件系统也基于目录结构。
文件和数据现在可以存储在本地文件系统或 Apple 的 iCloud 服务。

### 33.1 The Application Documents Directory

限制应用只能读写自己的 *Documents* 和 *tmp* 目录。可以在这两个目录内创建文件或子目录。This area constitutes the application’s sandbox and the application cannot usually create or modify files or directories outside of these directories unless using the `UIDocumentPickerViewController` class.

### 33.2 The NSFileManager, NSFileHandle and NSData Classes

- `NSFileManager`：用于基本的文件和目录操作，如创建、移动、读写文件、读写文件属性。识别当前工作目录，切换目录，创建文件夹，列出文件夹内容。
- `NSFileHandle`：用于进行低级文件操作，如定位到文件中特定位置，读写特定数量字节，向文件追加数据。
- `NSData`：The NSData class provides a useful storage buffer into which the contents of a file may be read, or from which dynamically stored data may be written to a file.

### 33.3 Swift 中的路径

As with Mac OS X, iOS defines pathnames using the standard UNIX convention. When an application starts, the current working directory is the file system’s root directory represented by a single `/`. From this location, the application must navigate to its own `Documents` and `tmp` directories in order to be able to write files to the file system. 相对路径（不以`/`开头）相对于当前工作目录。

### 33.4 获取默认 NSFileManager 对象

利用 `NSFileManager` 的类方法 `defaultManager` 获取默认实例：
`let filemgr = NSFileManager.defaultManager()`

### 33.5 当前工作目录

As previously mentioned, when an application first loads, its current working directory is the application’s root directory, represented by a / character. The current working directory may be identified at any time by accessing the `currentDirectoryPath` property of the file manager object.
`let currentPath = filemgr.currentDirectoryPath`

### 33.6 Documents 目录

The Documents directory for an application may be identified by making a call to a C function named `NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains`, passing through an argument (in this case `NSDocumentDirectory`) indicating that we require the path to the Documents directory. That said, the function does return an object in the form of an NSArray containing the results of the request. We can, therefore, obtain the path to the current application’s Documents directory as follows:

```
let dirPaths = NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains(.DocumentDirectory, .UserDomainMask, true)
let docsDir = dirPaths[0] as String
```

When executed on a physical iOS device, however, the path returned by the function call will take the following form:

	/var/mobile/Containers/Data/Application/<app id>/Documents

### 33.7 临时目录

The path to the current application’s temporary directory may be ascertained with a call to the `NSTemporaryDirectory` C function as follows:

```
let tmpDir = NSTemporaryDirectory() as String
```

### 33.8 切换目录

The current working directory of a running iOS application can be changed with a call to the `changeCurrentDirectoryPath` method of an `NSFileManager` instance. 该方法返回一个布尔，表示切换是否成功。失败可能由于目录不存在，或没有权限：

```
let filemgr = NSFileManager.defaultManager()
let dirPaths = NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains(.DocumentDirectory,
.UserDomainMask, true)
let docsDir = dirPaths[0] as String
if filemgr.changeCurrentDirectoryPath(docsDir) {
	// Success
} else {
	// Failure
}
```

### 33.9 创建新目录

利用实例方法 `NSFileManager.createDirectoryAtPath` 创建新目录。该方法也返回已给布尔表示创建是否成功。

第一个参数是目录名，字符串。
第二个参数表示是否自动创建中间目录。

This method also takes additional arguments in the form of a set of attributes for the new directory. Specifying `nil` will use the default attributes. The final argument provides the option to reference an `NSError` object to contain error information in the event of a failure. If this is not required, `nil` may be specified for this argument.

The following code fragment identifies the documents directory and creates a new sub-directory named `data` in that directory:

```
let filemgr = NSFileManager.defaultManager()
let dirPaths = NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains(.DocumentDirectory, .UserDomainMask, true)
let docsDir = dirPaths[0] as String
let newDir = docsDir.stringByAppendingPathComponent("data")
var error: NSError?
if !filemgr.createDirectoryAtPath(newDir, withIntermediateDirectories: true, attributes: nil, error: &error) {
	println("Failed to create dir: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 33.10 删除一个目录

```
var error: NSError?
if !filemgr.removeItemAtPath(newDir, error: &error) {
	println("Failed to delete directory: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 33.11 列出目录内容

A listing of the files contained within a specified directory can be obtained using the `directoryContentsAtPath` method. This method takes the directory pathname as an argument and returns an array object containing the names of the files and sub-directories in that directory. The following example obtains a listing of the contents of the root directory (/) and displays each item in the Xcode console panel during execution:

```
let filemgr = NSFileManager.defaultManager()
let filelist = filemgr.contentsOfDirectoryAtPath("/", error: &error)
for filename in filelist! {
	println(filename)
}
```

### 33.12 获取文件或目录的属性

The attributes of a file or directory may be obtained using the `attributesOfItemAtPath` method. This takes as arguments the path of the directory and an optional `NSError` object into which information about any errors will be placed (may be specified as nil if this information is not required). The results are returned in the form of an `NSDictionary` dictionary object. The keys for this dictionary are as follows:

    NSFileType
    NSFileTypeDirectory
    NSFileTypeRegular
    NSFileTypeSymbolicLink
    NSFileTypeSocket
    NSFileTypeCharacterSpecial
    NSFileTypeBlockSpecial
    NSFileTypeUnknown
    NSFileSize
    NSFileModificationDate
    NSFileReferenceCount
    NSFileDeviceIdentifier
    NSFileOwnerAccountName
    NSFileGroupOwnerAccountName
    NSFilePosixPermissions
    NSFileSystemNumber
    NSFileSystemFileNumber
    NSFileExtensionHidden
    NSFileHFSCreatorCode
    NSFileHFSTypeCode
    NSFileImmutable
    NSFileAppendOnly
    NSFileCreationDate
    NSFileOwnerAccountID
    NSFileGroupOwnerAccountID

For example, we can extract the file type for the /Applications directory using the following code excerpt:

```
let filemgr = NSFileManager.defaultManager()
var error: NSError?
let attribs: NSDictionary? = filemgr.attributesOfItemAtPath("/Applications", error: &error)
if let fileattribs = attribs {
    let type = fileattribs["NSFileType"] as String
    println("File type \(type)")
}
```

## 34 文件

### 34.2 检查文件是否存在

实例方法 `NSFileManager.fileExistsAtPath`。The method takes as an argument an `NSString` object containing the path to the file in question and returns a Boolean value indicating the presence or otherwise of the specified file:

```
if filemgr.fileExistsAtPath("/Applications") {
	println("File exists")
} else {
	println("File not found")
}
```

### 34.3 比较两个文件内容

The contents of two files may be compared for equality using the `contentsEqualAtPath` method. This method takes as arguments the paths to the two files to be compared and returns a Boolean result to indicate whether the file contents match:

```
if filemgr.contentsEqualAtPath(filepath1, andPath: filepath2) {
	println("File contents match")
} else {
	println("File contents do not match")
}
```

### 34.4 检查文件 Readable/Writable/Executable/Deletable

The quickest way to find out if your program has a particular access permission is to use the `isReadableFileAtPath`, `isWritableFileAtPath`, `isExecutableFileAtPath` and `isDeletableFileAtPath` methods. Each method takes a single argument in the form of the path to the file to be checked and returns a Boolean result. For example, the following code excerpt checks to find out if a file is writable:

```
if filemgr.isWritableFileAtPath(filepath1) {
	println("File is writable")
} else {
	println("File is read-only")
}
```

### 34.5 移动、重命名文件

A file may be renamed (assuming adequate permissions) using the `moveItemAtPath` method. This method returns a Boolean result and takes as arguments the pathname for the file to be moved, the destination path and an optional `NSError` object into which information describing any errors encountered during the operation will be placed. If no error description information is required, this argument may be set to `nil`. Note that if the destination file path already exists this operation will fail.

```
var error: NSError?
if filemgr.moveItemAtPath(filepath1, toPath: filepath2, error: &error) {
	println("Move successful")
} else {
	println("Moved failed with error: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 34.6 拷贝文件

File copying can be achieved using the `copyItemAtPath` method. As with the move method, this takes as arguments the source and destination pathnames and an optional NSError object. Success of the operation is indicated by the returned Boolean value:

```
var error: NSError?
if filemgr.copyItemAtPath(filepath1, toPath: filepath2, error: &error) {
	println("Copy successful")
} else {
	println("Copy failed with error: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 34.7 删除文件

The `removeItemAtPath` method removes the specified file from the file system. The method takes as arguments the pathname of the file to be removed and an optional `NSError` object. The success of the operation is, as usual, reported in the form of a Boolean return value:

```
var error: NSError?
if filemgr.removeItemAtPath(filepath1, error: &error) {
	println("Remove successful")
} else {
	println("Remove failed: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 34.8 创建符号链接

A symbolic link to a particular file may be created using the `createSymbolicLinkAtPath` method. This takes as arguments the path of the symbolic link, the path to the file to which the link is to refer and an optional NSError object:

```
var error: NSError?
if filemgr.createSymbolicLinkAtPath(filepath2, withDestinationPath: filepath1, error: &error) {
	println("Link successful")
} else {
	println("Link failed: \(error!.localizedDescription)")
}
```

### 34.9 利用 NSFileManager 读写文件

`NSFileManager` 具有基本的文件读写功能，这些功能与 `NSFileHandle` 相比相对受限，但有用。

首先，读取文件内容，存储在 `NSData` 对象：

```
let databuffer = filemgr.contentsAtPath(filepath1)
```

将 `NSData` 对象中的内容写出到文件。若文件已存在，则覆盖。

```
filemgr.createFileAtPath(filepath2, contents: databuffer, attributes: nil)
```

### 34.10 利用 NSFileHandle 处理文件

除了文件，还能用于处理设备和网络套接字。

### 34.11 创建 NSFileHandle 对象

An `NSFileHandle` object can be created when opening a file for reading, writing or updating (in other words both reading and writing). 打开的文件在用完后要关闭（`closeFile`）。If an attempt to open a file fails, for example because an attempt is made to open a non-existent file for reading, these methods return `nil`.

For example, the following code excerpt opens a file for reading and then closes it without actually doing anything to the file:

```
let file: NSFileHandle? = NSFileHandle(forReadingAtPath: filepath1)
if file == nil {
	println("File open failed")
} else {
	file?.closeFile()
}
```

### 34.12 文件偏移和定位

`NSFileHandle` 对象维护一个文件当前位置的指针，称为 **offset**。新打开的文件偏移为 0。将偏移一道文件尾部，用 `seekToEndOfFile` 方法。Alternatively, `seekToFileOffset` allows you to specify the precise location in the file to which the offset is to be positioned. Finally, the current offset may be identified using the `offsetInFile` method. 为了处理大文件，偏移使用某种无符号64位整数存储。

The following example opens a file for reading and then performs a number of method calls to move the offset to different positions, outputting the current offset after each move:

```
let file: NSFileHandle? = NSFileHandle(forReadingAtPath: filepath1)
if file == nil {
	println("File open failed")
} else {
    println("Offset = \(file?.offsetInFile)")
    file?.seekToEndOfFile()
    println("Offset = \(file?.offsetInFile)")
    file?.seekToFileOffset(30)
    println("Offset = \(file?.offsetInFile)")
    file?.closeFile()
}
```

### 34.13 从文件读取数据

`readDataOfLength` 方法从当前偏移处读取特定字节的数据。读出的数据存放在 `NSData` 对象：

```
let file: NSFileHandle? = NSFileHandle(forReadingAtPath: filepath1)
if file == nil {
	println("File open failed")
} else {
	file?.seekToFileOffset(10)
    let databuffer = file?.readDataOfLength(5)
    file?.closeFile()
}
```

Alternatively, the `readDataToEndOfFile` method will read all the data in the file starting at the current offset and ending at the end of the file.

### 34.14 写文件

The `writeData` method writes the data contained in an `NSData` object to the file starting at the location of the offset. Note that this does not insert data but rather overwrites any existing data in the file at the
corresponding location.

To see this in action, let’s assume the existence of a file named quickfox.txt containing the following text:

	The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog

Next, we will write code that opens the file for updating, seeks to position 10 and then writes some data at that location:

```
let file: NSFileHandle? = NSFileHandle(forUpdatingAtPath: filepath1)
if file == nil {
	println("File open failed")
} else {
    let data = ("black dog" as     NSString).dataUsingEncoding(NSUTF8StringEncoding)
    file?.seekToFileOffset(10)
    file?.writeData(data!)
    file?.closeFile()
}
```

When the above program is compiled and executed the contents of the quickfox.txt file will have changed to:

	The quick black dog jumped over the lazy dog

### 34.15 截断文件

A file may be truncated at the specified offset using the `truncateFileAtOffset` method. To delete the entire contents of a file, specify an offset of 0 when calling this method:

```
let file: NSFileHandle? = NSFileHandle(forUpdatingAtPath: filepath1)
if file == nil {
	println("File open failed")
} else {
    file?.truncateFileAtOffset(0)
    file?.closeFile()
}
```

## 35 目录和文件操作例子

The steps in this chapter walk through the creation of an iOS 8 application consisting of a text field and a button. When the user touches the button after entering text into the text field, that text is saved to a file. The next time the application is launched the content of the file is read by the application and preloaded into the text field.

创建新工程。模板选择 Single View Application。产品名 FileExample。

拖一个 Button 和一个 Text Field 到故事板。按钮文字修改为 `Save`。

文本框建立名为 textBox 的 Outlet。

按钮建立名为 saveText 的 action。事件选 Touch Up Inside。

先检查文件是否存在，再读取：

```
import UIKit
class ViewController: UIViewController {
    @IBOutlet weak var textBox: UITextField!
    var fileMgr: NSFileManager = NSFileManager.defaultManager()
    var docsDir: String?
    var dataFile: String?
    override func viewDidLoad() {
        super.viewDidLoad()
        let dirPaths = NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains(.DocumentDirectory, .UserDomainMask, true)
        docsDir = dirPaths[0] as? String
        dataFile = docsDir?.stringByAppendingPathComponent("datafile.dat")
        if fileMgr.fileExistsAtPath(dataFile!) {
            let databuffer = fileMgr.contentsAtPath(dataFile!)
            var datastring = NSString(data: databuffer!, encoding: NSUTF8StringEncoding)
            textBox.text = datastring
        }
    }
    ...
```

When the user enters text into our text field component and touches the save button, the text needs to be saved to the datafile.dat file located in the application’s Documents directory. In order to make this happen we need, therefore, to implement the code in our saveText action method. Select the ViewController.swift file if it is not already open and modify the template saveText method we created previously so that it reads as follows:

```
    @IBAction func saveText(sender: AnyObject) {
        let databuffer = (textBox.text as NSString).dataUsingEncoding(NSUTF8StringEncoding)
        fileMgr.createFileAtPath(dataFile!, contents: databuffer, attributes: nil)
	}
```

构建运行。